What was the music scene like then? Newport in the early 70s?
Well, to be honest with you, I wasn't that familiar with it. I certainly wasn't part of it.
Is that because you come from A-Men Corner?
It's hard to say really. I was kind of not that interested at the time in the music. I had my teeth
into the fashion thing. A-Men Corner finished in 1970. I formed a band called Judas Jump under
Don Arden's management, which lasted only about a year and a half. We made a couple of singles and
album and then we basically decided to call it a day. It wasn't going anywhere. So I decided to come
back to Wales. I just had enough at London at the time. I was with my girlfriend, a Swedish girl
called Britt, who was lovely. I decided to come back to live in Newport for a while just to get
my thoughts together. Whilst I was there, I met up with Paul Hanbury, who was one of the partners in
the shop called Clobber that was based in Cardiff Road. He had a partner called Gerald Davis.
They were running the shop. Then I came back and I had a few quid spare. I said,
do you fancy having a partner? They agreed that I could join as a third partner. Then we developed
the shop from there and it went on. You migrated over from the music business into the fashion
business. It wasn't intended to be long term or anything. It was just something else to do.
I got fed up with the politics of the rock and roll business for a while. It was a difficult time,
especially with Arden managing and all that. Don Arden was famously Sharon Osborne's father.
He was a sink or swim kind of thing. There was a lot of money put into it. It was like a hype.
It was signed to EMI. There were hoardings in London all over the place on the tube.
There was Front Page of the NME. There was loads and loads of publicity being put out there as a
super group, which is a little bollocks really to be honest with you because we were never a super
group. He wanted to create a super group kind of band. I picked other band members from other
bands. Andy Bound from The Herd, Henry Spanetti on drums, Charlie Harrison who went on to be Poco
and a couple of other guys. One other guy, Julian Williams who became head of Sony.
Richard, you were around Newport in the early 70s I believe.
I left school in 16. I was 17 in 1970. I was living in Cardiff. It was really Cardiff that
I was familiar with during the 70s. The moon, the top rank, places like that. It wasn't until
well, I went to the Cardiff Art College in 1971. I spent a year there and then moved over to Newport
in 1972. So it was in 1972 that I arrived in Newport. You were there as well Alan in 1972?
Yeah, I was there. By then we'd opened up the shop probably in Skinner Street.
What are you making of Newport then? It was pre-punk I guess you'd call it, glam.
Where did the bands play? It was the time of Prog Rock wasn't it? I don't know about Newport
bands. I'm trying to think of the bands that would have been around at that time. You know the bands
like Oswald Orange, some odd names. They became racing cars right? Yeah, yeah. Kensington was the
club at the time. Tell us a little bit about that Alan because this would have been like almost the
TJs of the early 70s in Newport I guess. It was the Rock Club in Newport wasn't it? Well you know
who ran that, it was Julian's father. Julian Blake's father yeah. Julian Blake's dad. Newport legend
Julian Blake. And his wife Marilyn ran the club and they were getting a guy called Alan Gardner
was managing it and a guy called Ricky King who was the DJ and they were bringing in lots of bands.
I mean well Amen Corner played there but you know people like Roxy Music, Dr John, Status Quo,
you know a lot of the touring bands at the time they were getting the pick of the crop really.
I think they had an agent in London who was helping them out with the bands.
And didn't that eventually burn down I think? Yeah I think the only idea I don't quite know exactly
what happened. I have no idea but it was a place to go you know for sure you know it was a fun
place and it was quite happening at the time. How about you Rich? Were you a gig goer? I know you were.
Yeah well yes but it was more, the thing is we had the Students Union on Stow Hill.
When I was a student in Cardiff in the art college I'd go to the gigs in the Students Union. I mean
one of the best things about becoming a student in Cardiff was the fact that I got a union card
that I can get into places you know so now I've seen all the bands that you know it was difficult
to get into. But the Students Union on Stow Hill we had a hall out the back and it was there that
we used to have bands once a month and there'd be the sort of discos and stuff like that and
occasionally we'd go to the Kensington but we were pretty much in this sort of, we'd stick to
the union and in fact we would go over to Cardiff more than we would anywhere else because Cardiff
had a pretty good music scene really you know. I'd got to know Shaking Stevens while I was in
Cardiff Art College and he used to play over the pageant rooms and his manager Legs Barrett,
I got to know him as well and Legs was managing a Newport band called Crazy Cavern and the Rhythm
Rockers and it was Crazy Cavern, I sort of, were the first band that I came across in Newport as a
sort of a Newport band and I mean they were, I think John Peel once said something like down
there in Newport they've never heard of a rock and roll revival because it's never died and these
blokes were playing from the early, well they were playing in the 60s, I mean they were,
well they only stopped playing because Cavern sadly died and they were the first band,
Newport band that I went and see, in fact I went to see them in Corporation Road in the Corporation
Hotel, I remember going to see it and at the back of the hotel was a hall and they used to have these
country and western nights where everybody dressed up as cowboys and took guns along,
I think they were pretend ones. What year would this have been do you think?
At 72, 3 something like that, it was early, fairly early and they would, that's where I first saw
them, I saw them playing in there and then I saw them in various other places around Newport,
I can't remember all of the places but I got to follow them quite regularly because I like
rockabilly and rock and roll. Yeah they were legendary Newport bands, did you know them Al?
Well I remember, no when I go back before that to the days of the majestic which is back in the 60s
so that's another story you know and that was the place where you'd see, I saw, do I see there,
Gene Vincent, Georgie Fame and the Blue Flames, you know all the Mersey Beats, all the Mersey bands,
Zoop Money, I mean it was a great scene I thought when I was growing up but I was
in my teens then you know it was a different story altogether. How did you get into music Alan
and Newport, what was the way in for you? Well I just, I was a big fan, I was going to shows
when I was probably about 12 or 13. It was the Majestic Ballroom, I would go back to Gene Vincent
in his leather suit and his one leg, you know the one leg with the leg behind him, he broke his leg
or he had a bad, he had a dummy leg you know that he broke in a car accident or something or a
motorbike crash or whatever it was and I remember him playing at the Majestic with, you know,
it was kind of iconic to see him, it was amazing to see him play there and it would have been
65, what about 65? Oh yeah I was a teenager, I was, yeah yeah, I mean I was in, I was in
heaven, it was great, it was the best thing I've ever seen I think. The roof, the roof, you know,
was blown off the place. That was the key to it all as far as I was concerned, that was when I was
growing up, that's formed a lot of my early knowledge of, you know, of music and got me
excited about it. I know nothing of the Majestic, where was it exactly? On Stowe Hill, right next to
the Penn and Lee, right at the bottom of Stowe Hill. When did it close in the 60s?
Probably late 60s I'd say, early 70s, they had a Saturday morning club, you know, we could go,
the guy would be playing all the jive records and stuff, I mean it was really the place to go
back then, but that's where I saw my first bands, you know, when I was growing up and then I was
going to see package shows in Cardiff at the Capitol, saw The Beatles with Roy Orbison,
Jerry and the Pacemakers, saw The Stones with Ike and Tina Turner, saw, you know, just reading
and the Stax review, I mean it just went on and on, but I even remember The Allisons and sort of,
you know, really NAF bands that were actually touring, playing the Colston Hall, and I was
about 14, I think, or 15, so I mean and then the Majestic was like a regular event and it was
one of the, you know, it was very kind of either, you're either a teddy boy or a mod,
right, so there were quite often a few of argy bargies there, depending on which side of the room
you were on, it was a bit hairy, you know, but the girls were there, you know, they'd like to dance,
I was quite good at driving at the time, I remember, but I saw some great bands and like,
then I joined a band, I saw, actually I saw Sounds Incorporated playing, they were like an
instrumental band really, with six piece, with horns, and I saw the guys playing the horns,
I thought from that time onwards I really wanted to play sax, so that's why I got a saxophone,
and it went on from there, and Andy used to come up from Cardiff to see the bands.
Had he fair weather low?
Yeah, he used to come, I used to see him, and I was in a band called Five In Hand then,
and I was singing and playing a bit of sax, and Andy was always there, so I guess I got to meet him,
and it kind of went on from there, you know, but that's 60s, that's 60s, and then I promoted
stuff myself in the top rank back in 70s, but that was all, a lot of that was reggae,
I did a lot of reggae stuff, field pass, you know, third world.
When you've had a life in kind of music culture, really Alan?
Yeah, I dipped in and out of it, you know.
You've always seemed to have been in it, in music or fashion in some way, if not for promotion,
you know, promoting.
I can't think of anything else that interests me really.
You just can't get a job.
No exactly, create your own work, you know, you know, yeah.
And Richard, I know we haven't mentioned this, but you've kind of had a career in
tell me, tell me what you've worked in.
I've worked in housing and homelessness, and I was a psychiatric nurse, but the one thing
which I've always done is having been to art college, I always believed that everybody
ought to go to art college, and that everybody had the potential of something within them,
and I believe that when I was running this homeless organisation, that all the homeless
people that we dealt with had something that they could do.
So I raised nearly two million pounds to build the first purpose-built art centre for homeless
people in Britain.
There were day centres in Britain, but this was a purpose-built art centre.
What year was this?
That would be, it was after the 70s, unfortunately.
It was later.
That's okay, it's worth talking, it's certainly worth mentioning.
We had a recording studio in there, we had an art room, ceramics, pottery, we taught
people how to play music.
When was that, Rich?
It was on the corner of Dock Street and George Street, it's in the old Jessamyns building.
Prince Charles and his son opened it, William.
So it was opened when he finished university, so I don't know what year that was, but the
thing was it was, you know, and it was absolutely fantastic, and I think it was a great
experience, you know, and it was absolutely fantastic because there was nobody who couldn't
do something.
In fact, I've got two albums here which were produced by them, and I've even got another
album over here which was all about the Chartists.
It was all about Alex's books, his stories.
So it was fantastic, but sadly it's closed now, and, you know, I think that people had
been, especially people who had been excluded from all sorts of things, to give them the
opportunity to express themselves some way, musically or artistically, gave them confidence
and it would, you know, move them along and help them get out of the situation they found
themselves in, but it doesn't happen these days.
That's a shame, God.
It is, really.
And what's there now?
Is there anything there now?
It's accommodation.
Wow.
That must have been the 80s, was it?
Late 80s.
Late 80s, I'd say.
Late 80s, because I was away.
Yeah, that's good.
If you'd have been around then, Alan, I would have pestered you to come over and do
something, you know, talk about something.
I would have loved to have done that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh well.
Benji did come in once on one occasion because he was recording just up the road in that
Notting Hill studio.
I remember Benji when he was a teenager, toasting.
Yeah, yeah, and down Cardiff, down to Casablanca.
Yeah.
I haven't said this yet, but obviously you opened Paradise Garage in Cardiff in the
late 70s, right?
Yeah.
That was kind of a punk shop.
Then you took it to LA.
Yeah, it was in Bristol first, you know.
It was in Bristol.
I'd invested in the shop in Clobber.
We grew the shops.
We eventually opened one in Skinner Street, which was the alternative to the one in
Cardiff Road.
And then we opened a bigger shop down the road on the corner of Skinner Street and Dock
Street, opposite Arnold's Lighting Emporium, which is still there.
And, you know, it was quite a popular shop and we were selling all the latest sort of
clothes, you know, mostly men's wear.
So it was fairly straight kind of clothing, really, although it was kind of fashionable
at the time.
And so then the other little shop that is in the street became more the alternative shop
and I was kind of more responsible for buying stuff for that.
It was back and forth to London then.
Again, going back and forth.
My girlfriend had good contacts with Kensington Market.
I was buying a lot of stuff from there and stuff that people hadn't seen before in Newport.
So it became quite a trendy shop.
Where would people go?
What clubs or pubs?
Well, I don't know.
Eventually, I think before, I'm not sure what they were doing between 72 and 74, but in
74 we opened Rudy's, which was the nightclub.
And that lasted for years because I used to go there in the 80s, you know.
Yeah, which became the place to go on a Friday or Saturday night.
It was kind of like a bit more at market sort of strict dress code, you know, but not posh.
It wasn't posh.
But it was a lovely place.
It had a nice decor and we had a dance floor and a good DJ.
It was quite a cool place to go.
It used to get absolutely ram-packed.
Well, it changed a lot because we were doing all the disco stuff then, you see.
So, and then everybody that was in, you know, a lot of customers from the shop would actually
go congregate and go to Rudy's.
It became the place to go.
So you had the fashion shop and the club too?
Yeah.
And then, and then clobber carried on and we opened up about three or four more shops.
So we had about six shops in the end.
And eventually I was back and forth to the King's Road every week practically, buying
stuff for Bristol because Bristol became more of my little baby.
So I was buying all the cool stuff that they wouldn't have sold in Newport and putting into the Bristol shop.
I was traveling up every week.
I was picking up bin liners of stuff all over the King's Road and up to Hackney and all over London really.
And it was fun. It was so much fun.
And I'd come back, you know, we'd put stuff on sale.
We'd sell the stuff on a Saturday and I'd go back up again the following week.
It was back and forth all the time to London.
So I was really aware of the punk thing that was coming along the tunnel.
You know, nobody else could, you know, because I was there all the time.
Yeah.
What were you doing there?
Sorry, I was just going to switch over to ask Richard what he was doing.
Well, one of the things that had happened whilst I was in Cardiff, it does follow in, it follows on to Newport, was that
we got involved with showing a film about Stokely Carmichael and the Black Panthers.
And we took it one day down to the paddle steamer in Tiger Bay.
And it was during the coal miners strike.
And halfway through the film where Stokely Carmichael was stirring everybody up, there was a power cut.
And we were the only white people in the room and the place was getting a bit, felt very hostile.
Anyway, somebody stood up with a torch and said this bloke's a bad man, really.
You know, the working class people should be standing together and all this sort of business.
Anyway, so we became good friends and we used to go down there fairly regularly as a group of students.
But it was there that I was introduced to this thing called toasting.
I'd never heard of it. I didn't know what it was.
I mean, some people now would call it rapping.
Yeah, improv.
It was toasting then. They'd have a sound system set up in the paddle steamer.
And they'd have this music playing and then somebody would just jump up and do this sort of toasting.
And then we used to go down there regularly as students and we used to enjoy it.
But when I came to Newport, there was another one of these places at the Silver Sands, which was down in Pill,
which was very near to Bolt Street, which was part of the art college.
So this was one of the sort of local places that we were using regularly on a kind of it was I seem to remember it was a Saturday night.
It was a we go there on a Saturday and then we'd go to the Hastings, which was on the other side of the road.
We'd wait until the police had raided it because it was generally a raid every week or so.
They take someone away, they get busted and then everybody collects and pay the fine.
But I mean, you'd walk down these steps into the basement and it was thick with the smoke of cannabis.
I mean, you had a choice when you got down there. Don't buy any or just get stoned.
And that's mostly what our students did because we couldn't afford to buy it.
So it was a great place for us to go to get stoned for free.
And that's where, you know, that's where I went with Woody, who became Joe Strummer.
And it was where we would used to go down there with a gang of us.
You know, much is much has been written and spoke about the myth of Woody, Joe Strummer and his Newport years.
You were the you were the man who shared a flat with him.
So you can opportunity for you to put the kind of record straight here.
How did you come to meet Joe and what was the how would you describe his time?
He came down to Newport. He came down at the same time as me, actually, in 1971.
He came down to Cardiff following a girl trying to pick up with who he'd split up with.
And she wasn't having any of it. So he called in in Newport on his way.
This was about September when term started, stopped off at Newport on his way back to London
and called in on a friend of his who he'd been in college with in London.
And he stayed with him in North Street in Baineswell for a little while.
And they went up to the students union and it was there that he saw, I think it was ripoff park playing in the in the hall at the back
and decided that he would stay and continue his kind of rock and roll journey.
I mean, his parents, from what I remember him telling me now, had given him sort of a time off to find to find himself because he'd been to private school.
You know, I mean, he wasn't a, you know, he'd been to public school and they would be and they were giving him a bit of slack to to find his feet.
And he was determined to learn to play the guitar. And he wanted to become a star.
You know, even then he was determined and he was writing stuff and he did learn to play the guitar.
So what happened to you? Did you share a flat with each other? Is that true? And what was it like the young ones or something?
Entenville, yes, behind the railway station. It was it was I know it's a bit of a joke, but it was very much like the young ones.
It was a shithole place. It was falling apart.
We had the reel to reel tape recorder in there and he would use it a lot.
And one of the very first songs that he wrote, Crummy Bum Blues, he recorded, we recorded on it.
And I've still got that recording now. I only discovered it a few years ago and it was used in the film about Joe Strummer, which was made a few years ago.
So it's on the cassette or it's on a it is on the cassette now, Alan.
I've digitalized it as well, but it's it's on the film as well.
I can't piece of historical archive there.
Well, I see the art college. That's the other thing.
I think it was definitely the conduit for a lot of the alternative scene that I wasn't part of.
I was I was definitely on the straight, I think the straight and narrow.
I wasn't delving into any of that side of it.
So I think it's very creative time that the art college had a very good reputation anyway.
People travel for miles to be there.
Well, the thing is, in Newport Art College, the head of the painting section was a chap called Tom Rathmell and his wife Lillian.
And their daughter had married Ian Jury.
Oh, right.
And they produced Baxter and Baxter's the one who's on the front cover of New Boots and Panties.
So Ian would come down.
He's got his own career now.
So his grandparents ran the art college in Newport, is that right?
Well, they were head of they were head of fine art.
Wow.
So they funny enough, they interviewed me to come to Newport Art College.
I had two interviews. I had an interview in Falmouth.
I didn't get it.
And Newport was my second choice, but I was, you know, I was glad I did get it and they interviewed me.
And then every so often, Lillian, the daughter would come down and visit the family and Ian would would come down.
And of course, he wasn't a blockhead then.
He was just he was a lecturer in an art college.
They met in the Royal Academy.
Well, see, there's a history there, isn't it?
Yeah.
I don't know, was there a lot of music going on there as well?
The college, did they develop that music?
Yeah. Well, one of the other things that happened while I was there was that I don't know if you can remember.
Do you remember the Portsmouth Symphonia?
Yeah. Is that the group who would get together, a collective of people who couldn't play the instruments and give them a day to learn it?
Yeah, that's it.
They turned up one day at the art college and asked if there was a group of us who wanted to learn to play a particular piece of music badly.
So I think about 10 or 12 of us got together and spent a whole day learning how not to play.
I had to put my finger on something and do that.
And at the end of it, we opened the curtains on the stage during the afternoon break and played it.
And I think we drove everybody out.
But the upshot was that they recorded an album at the Albert Hall that year and we were invited up to sing in the choir and we did the Hallelujah Chorus.
And it was on the old Grey Whistle test.
That's brilliant.
The art college, you know, there was lots of stuff going on in the art college musically.
The thing was it was very closed, you know, and it was the old union on Stowe Hill.
We didn't get many. You had the Labour Club next door.
You had the Black Clawson's at the top of the hill.
And a lot of these working men clubs would have bands.
And we seemed to have infiltrated the working man's club because the booze was cheap.
And we would go to the Black Clawson's and they'd have a band up there.
We'd go to the Labour Club on Stowe Hill.
I think I saw Dr John in Labour Club.
Dr Feelgood, I think I saw on Stowe Hill as well.
You know, there were all sorts of these bands playing in the working man's clubs.
That was before the Stowe, right?
Yes.
I don't know much about the hit.
I mean, the Stowe was...
I remember the Stowe.
I never remember the Stowe not being there.
So when do you think that opened?
I know when it opened.
Alan, do you know when it opened?
I don't know exactly.
It would have been the same time as Rudy's roundabout the same time, I think.
72 or 73, was it?
No, it was a bit late.
It was, well...
I mean, was it a disco tech that started putting on?
I've seen the list on the...
I've had a look.
I was trying to find out the date that it opened.
When it opened, I looked on the internet and it appears that on the Anarchy in the UK, the Sex Pools tour,
they were about the first or second band to play there.
Right.
But I thought it was something else before that.
I'm kind of interested a bit in...
There used to be a club just down a bit from there called the...
What was that called, Alan?
Scamps, is it Scamps?
Yeah, that was there.
Scamps was there, wasn't it?
It was a strip club, right?
It was a strip club in the basement.
Oh, I don't know.
At the bottom of Stale Hill.
That's it.
And then famously, and again, this is before my time, but the Alexandra opposite the Odeon.
Oh yeah, I used to go there.
Famous or infamous for having the police's first official gig, you know, Sting's.
All right.
They were cherry vanilla's backing band.
And part of the deal was that they would open and that was the first date on her tour.
So did you ever go to the Alex?
It wasn't known as a rock gig, as far as I can remember.
No, it was rough as hell.
No, I didn't go there.
I did go there once.
Well, I went there more than once.
After I left art college, I think it was about 75, I didn't know anybody really
because the students kept themselves themselves.
Everybody went home and I was left in Newport with nobody really.
And I inadvertently went to the King's Hotel one night and found myself in the gay,
the gay center of Newport and became quite friendly with them.
They had a great scene and they were going over to the discos in Bristol and loved it.
It's a great time.
But they used to go to the Alex a lot.
A lot. That club you've just been talking about.
It was through that scene, which was quite big in Newport.
I was the sort of straight hanger on, just as I enjoyed going around there.
It was good laugh.
There was also a gay club underneath the Stowaway, wasn't it, called the Speakeasy.
Do you remember that?
Yeah.
So that's where a lot of people used to go.
But there was a lot going on at the Stowaway.
I remember putting on some bands there on a Monday night with Mark Southall.
You know, Mark used to run Diverse and the place in Cross Street before it.
What year were you talking about?
I'm thinking 1973, 1974, 1975, somewhere around there.
He was a DJ at the time.
So we were playing a lot of funk.
There was another guy called David Bamford.
He was another specialist DJ, you know, and they were playing lots of American funk.
So we were doing a lot of that and I was bringing in funk bands.
High Tension, Gonzales.
I can't remember all the names, but it was quite a scene.
Yeah.
On a Monday night.
Sounds really exciting.
So it's a Newport for its size, people say, has always kind of managed to have these kind of scenes, you know,
these kind of kind of cultural scenes.
Yeah.
Alice from Racing Cars used to...
Ray Innis.
Ray Innis would drink with us all in the Oddfellas in Baineswell.
We used to meet up in there and play darts.
Well, the thing is I'd moved, I'd left art college and I'd bought a house in Baineswell in the mid 70s because Baineswell had been condemned.
It was going to be demolished.
The whole place.
They were going to build a road over the top and flats and shops and all sorts of stuff.
Anyway, I bought a house in St. Mary Street for a thousand quid.
I think it was about 1977, 1976, something like that.
It was the Queen's Jubilee and got it for a thousand quid.
And we used to go over to the Stoway and I remember seeing Reckless Eric in there, Generation X, the Slips, Billy Idol.
Wasn't it the guy, wasn't it, what's his name, Walton was doing it?
Yeah, I think, yes.
Was the promoter, wasn't he?
I think he was.
Yeah, Andy Walton.
Yeah, and I think in 1978, the Rizzillos came down.
They were another punk, sorry, they're not punk really, they're kind of new wavy, but they were an art college band.
There was lots of art college formed bands.
Rizzillos were one.
The Mekons were another one, of course, with John Langford from Newport who went to Leeds.
But the Rizzillos came and played in Newport and there was a band called Ralph and the Ponytails who were from Newport and they supported the Rizzillos.
And the Rizzillos liked them so much that they went on tour with them.
And it was through the tour, because the Rizzillos had played with the Mekons, that they met John Langford and John produced their first single.
That's Ralph and the Ponytails.
James Bond.
James Bond, and of course, James Bond's on both sides of the single.
Inadvertently, they made a mistake.
So I've got a copy of that, so it's probably priceless now.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
One of the things I was hoping to kind of get out of you, if possible, because obviously Alan, you left Newport and went to Los Angeles, right?
Yeah, well, what happened with Clobber?
I got out of Clobber because we had six shops and I said to the guys, look, you know, I've discovered this thing called Punk and they didn't know anything about this.
I was so surreptitiously developing my own business there and I said, look, I'll take the shop in Bristol if you take the others.
I'm happy just to have the one shop.
And they said, go ahead.
And it was in the Haymarket in Bristol.
Anyway, I developed that thing that became really popular as Paradise Garage.
So then as the year went by, the second year, I decided to open one in Cardiff in St. Mary Street down the bottom there, which was fairly unfashionable and cheap.
The rent was cheap.
And that went well.
And we were getting a lot of bands and a lot of people from the valleys, kids buying their bondage jeans and all the stuff from Sex and London and all the stuff from Boy and the
Kings Road and it was just becoming quite a scene.
And there were a lot of little clubs that came off that, you know, that were very influential, I think, at the time.
And then Clive Taylor, who was the bass player with Amon Corner, was living in LA then by that time with his wife, Madeleine.
And they came over to visit his mum in Cardiff and they came in the shop and they said, wow, this is like this would go a storm in LA.
You must you must come over and have a look because there's so many musicians over there looking for something to wear.
And there's no there's nobody selling it.
So you must come and have a look.
So I went over.
I went over with Kingsley from Rockfield and Ray Martinez, who was one of the guitar players they used on sessions there because they were promoting a new album and they wanted to get signed.
So they went we went away and then records over there, various other places.
And I stayed for a week.
I didn't think much of it at the time, came back for about a few months and I said, this is this can't be right.
There's going to be more to it than this.
So I went back again and I stayed this time with Clive and Madeleine and we showed me around.
I was blown away by it.
And by that time, they showed me everything I needed to see really, you know, all the heritage, all the cars and Malibu beaches.
It was fabulous.
So we decided to open the shop when we opened in 1981.
So that was on Melrose Avenue, which was nothing at the time.
It was just a street full of furniture shops and second hand clothing and a couple of art varks, which was a famous record shop.
And yeah, we opened in 1981.
I spoke to Vivian Westwood.
I said, can we use the name Let It Rock?
And she was fine about that.
And that's what I did.
And our first customer was the cars, a band called The Cars.
They were knocking on the door the night before we opened the shop.
They wanted to come in and see what we had.
You know, it was great.
You know, it was fabulous.
It was a great time.
Yeah.
And they went on from there.
It's such a good story.
You then got into rock bands.
You managed the LA Guns, right?
Yeah, from 1985, 86.
And then there was the big air scene.
That was the Sunset Strip, you know, all the glam rock bands then with Guns N' Roses and Poison and Raps and Warrens and Faster Pussycat and blah, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's a natural development really.
But what I found was the fashion and the music goes together, you see.
That's the whole point.
And it always has, you know.
Unfortunately, these days it's gone.
But, you know, since 1989 when the Manchester scene came along with the Hacienda and the Stone Roses and Happy Mondays and all that ecstasy and the E-Culture, it got rid of all that fashion, just became baggy t-shirts and baggy jeans.
It screwed it all up completely.
I hate Manchester bands.
That's a good turn.
No, I really do.
No, but anyway, no, but in the meantime, sorry, you know, during the 70s there was stuff going on, obviously, but it was punk.
It was, it was, they were funk, as you say, we were doing the funk stuff.
And then the punk, you know, they became sort of a lot of Bowie fans around at that time, late 70s.
I mean, you can't really underestimate the influence of Bowie.
No, absolutely.
I mean, they were big followers.
And I tell you these people, we had Rudy's, which was a straight club and was very, like, very formal in lots of ways and very strict policy about letting people in and all that business.
But I decided to have a go at opening a night for punks.
This is right in the middle of it all, like, in 1977.
And of course there were these gangs of kids that were coming down from Mercer on the bus.
And amongst them was Chris Sullivan, who became very influential and opened the Wag Club in London.
Steve Strange, Steve Harrington from Blackwood, who was one of them was wearing, and they were all in like bin liners and with chains going through their noses, you know, bright yellow hair.
It was like, it was like something out of another planet, you know, people that were caught on to it.
I mean, they were shocked by it.
They were really shocked by it.
But a lot of them came from the valleys, you know, down to Newport.
And that created that bit of a fashion scene.
And they used to go to Rudy's.
There was Baker's Row, which was in John Frost Square, which was another, which is, there was one in Cardiff, but this Baker's Row was opened up as a disco.
So they used to go there.
Newport, as long as I can remember, has always had sort of a reputation for kind of violence, or at least as a tough turn to put it.
It was a hard town.
Was it like that? Was it just worse then?
No, I think as these guys kept themselves themselves and they were team-handed, you know, so I don't think people, I think they just moved around.
I don't remember them getting into much trouble.
I just think that they were, they were a lot on them.
Yeah, and pretty tough themselves, I would imagine.
Yeah, they were from, believe me, they were tough.
They're not tough to look at, but you know, they were, you wouldn't want to mess around with them at all.
But it was a lot of fun that.
Then Steve went up to live in London and opened the Blets Club and all that stuff.
What were you doing, Rich, around about the late 70s?
Well, as I said, 77 was really when the, that was the White Riot tour, when that happened in 77.
And Mick Foote was in a shared a studio in Newport Art College with Alan Jones.
Oh, another Alan Jones. Good God.
Alan Jones, who went on to become the editor of Melody Maker and Uncut.
Oh, really?
So those two shared a studio.
Now, what happened was that in Mick's third year, when he was writing his dissertation or tried to write his dissertation, he was writing on rock music.
Well, Woody, Joe Strummer, had left Pentonville, the flat, and had moved in in Clifford Crescent with Mick and his girlfriend.
And so in order to not pay rent, he wrote Mick's dissertation for him.
So Woody wrote Mick Foote's dissertation.
At the end of that term, Joe went back up to London and Mick went back up to London, and he became a squatter in 101 somewhere or other, and they formed the 101ers.
And Mick got kind of embroiled in it all and ended up being the sound man.
And so they were doing this UK tour now, the White Riot tour, and they were playing in the Union in Cardiff.
So I went over to see them and as I said, Mick was doing the sound and they, Joe had given me his ukulele.
He left his ukulele in Newport when he went back to London and he asked me to bring it over to Bristol, where they were playing the following day in the exhibition centre on the riverfront.
So anyway, I went over the next day, but luckily I forgot to take the ukulele.
And when he shouted at me during the soundcheck, where's my fucking guitar frame?
I forgot. He said, oh, you may as well keep it. It was bloody useless anyway, because there was no string on it.
So I got to keep it. But I stayed with him on a couple of the gigs and acted as the bloke who looked after the bouncers, which was an experience.
I wouldn't mind kind of trying to draw some memories at you guys.
We've spoken a bit about fashion and quite a lot about music.
What do you remember of kind of what it was like just to live at that time in Newport, you know, which is a working class town, steel town, I guess it was then kind of defined by Lam-Wurn.
Would you say that? Yeah, definitely.
I mean, but, you know, I remember it's a thriving town.
It was, you know, the street was busy, commercial street was busy, you know, lots of shops, you know, a lot of activity, lots of pubs.
I kind of thought it was pretty cool. It was all right. I didn't have a problem.
No boarded up. No boarded up. No, no, not like now. No, no, no, not at all.
No, absolutely. I mean, my dad was involved with, you know, retail on the street.
He was in London House, which is a big department store there.
I remember that growing up when he was, you know, I used to go there and wrap presents at Christmas time for the punters, you know, but and then he had a drapery shop on commercial street called Phillips and Hamley.
I just remember it has been, yeah, a busy town, you know, good stuff.
Lots of nice people. I don't remember a lot of aggravation really, I have to say.
I never got bothered that much.
I was going to say, when I arrived, I had to spend my first few weeks down in Bolt Street.
And I'd lived in Cardiff before anyways, and I'd gone down Tiger Bay a lot as a student in foundation.
So there were a lot of similarities between pill and Tiger Bay. But the one thing that was noticeable down there that the whole place was being about to be demolished.
And there was this absolute sense of total misery and depression.
It was the saddest place that I'd ever been to. There were people hanging around on street corners because the roads, the roads of houses have been boarded up.
And they'd been shunted out by the council to sort of stay in temporary places up in Bettis and places like that.
And they just kept returning and there was gangs of people stood on street corners. And it was very sad, you know, they opened the pill advice centre and it was run by a bloke called Cliff Knight, who went on to write lots of books about pill.
And he was a wonderful man. And they used to go in there for solace more than anything else and he used to comfort them because it was such a massive upheaval.
So Newport was going through this big change really. They were trying to sweep aside the corn exchange. A lovely building was being demolished.
I remember it was opposite the King's Head Hotel and I just couldn't understand why they were demolished. It was this fantastic building with a lovely clock front.
So funny enough, I thought it was quite depressing actually at the time. You're right, the high street was thriving. There was a fantastic market. The market was great.
I used to have a stall upstairs in the market selling art and I had a badge making business and I would make all the badges by hand.
And I made all the badges for Tizwas when that started. I jokingly sent off a couple of badges for Spit the Dog and the next programme they were all wearing them.
I used to get orders in. In fact, I'm wearing a badge now. In fact, this badge here is, I think Richard got one of these, it's for the photographs of Joe Stromer at the small cemetery.
But I made all the badges for the prizes for Tizwas and we had a lovely stall up there. It was a great sense of community. Every Saturday the upstairs was open. It was packed up there.
And the market at Crispa was wonderful. It was lovely.
In those days, before streaming and computers, you had cinemas, two channels on the TV.
Anything that you can think of? It doesn't really matter how off the wall it is that you might want to talk about.
What was the first IRA event at that time? Any kind of events?
Well, in London, the first IRA bombs were going off and I was working as a student up in London during the summer holidays.
And while I was working up there on one occasion, the bombs went off in the Tower of London. And on the day that I was working and I was drinking in an Irish bar in Piccadilly Circus at the time.
And they rounded up loads of people. But in the art college, we used to invite a speaker along every month to talk about various things.
And we ended up one month getting somebody from the IRA came and spoke about things. And it's a slight different perspective on their point of view.
And I actually became quite friendly with this. He was a young lad, nice young lad, who was their man in Newport.
And he used to hang around with our students. I mean, not quite sure what he was up to.
But I mean, you know, there's a big Irish population in Newport, of course, second generation, third generation, some of them.
You know, there was a lot of that. And of course, there was that bomb that went off in Newport in Gorey, which nobody was really sure whether it was just an accident that somebody had left the bomb in a case there and had to skedaddle or something.
And it went off. Could you accidentally leave a bomb? Well, a police may have turned up and he may have ran. Nobody really knows.
Bomber Charles Street, am I right? Yes. Opposite Lloyds Bank, just slightly over to the left of Lloyds of the bank.
It went off just before the pubs emptied. If it had gone off a little bit later, there would have probably been a hell of a lot of injuries.
And I think there was somebody who was found dead a few days later, if I remember, suspected bomber, but they could never connect the two.
Do you remember the silver Jubilee in Newport, Alan? 1977.
Okay, yeah, go on. Yeah. In Baineswell, we had a carnival and we painted all the herbs, red, white and blue and we had pram races and it was a great carnival for Baineswell because that was in 77.
And when the carnival was on its knees, Baineswell had now been given a new lease of life.
Although I bought my house being told it was going to be demolished, they'd given us the all clear after about a year saying, you know, we're not knocking them down after all now so you can stay there, which was fantastic, you know.
So it was just a big celebration, the Baineswell carnival.
I'm not sure now if there would be street parties for a royal celebration, what do you think?
Probably not.
You know, times have changed.
Exactly. Yeah, yeah, indeed.
I've remembered now how it was that Alan and I met. It was through Alexander Cordell, of course.
Of course, Alexander Cordell wrote Rape of the Fair Country in 1959 and Alan met him, I would have thought, during the 70s.
Hang on, let's think about this.
No, I got in touch with John Barnes.
That's right.
About this, about this story and about what was happening with it, and I got a letter back from him that was in the late 60s.
When I was in London, I read the book and I was very, I was taken with it and I decided in grandiose idea that we should do a film.
What do you think about it now?
And I contacted John Barnes who lives in New Jersey, who had the rights to the books.
And that was the first time, but I never met Alex until 81 or 82 when my wife to be came over and she fell down the stairs and went home.
And we couldn't go back to the States so she spent the fortnight on her back, basically reading the book.
And we got it and we decided to go and get in touch with him and we went to stay with him and it was the Isle of Man.
We flew up to the Isle of Man to see him.
And I saw him again in Wrexham.
So that was then, that was early 80s.
Yeah, because that when his book was published when when I came down to Wales in 66 I was told to read it by my history teacher and then of course, moving to Newport in 1972 was absolutely fantastic because you know here I was at the Westgate Hotel with Bullitt Halls.
Of course.
But also I was very friendly with the band called Budgie. Oh yeah.
I used to do the road in for them.
And Ray, exactly Burke, and we went on one occasion I remember playing in Blenavon in some working man's club, which was opposite, not the pit the fine works.
I read the book.
I went over to the ironworks and of course it had to hadn't got old of it by then and it was just this derelict depressing sort of site and you could wander around it imagining the words I could hear this Alex's writing was so colorful as you know, you know, it was fantastic
to go and see and because we both got to know Alex well.
I know some people won't know who Alexander Cordell is so do you want to do a brief introduction about who Alexander Cordell is in the book itself. Alexander Cordell was a writer who wrote a book called Rape of the Fair Country which was published in 1959, and it tells the story
of a Welsh iron family who live in Blenavon, who get involved in Chartism, who marched down on that fateful night in 1839 to the battle that takes place outside the Westgate Hotel.
And it tells the story is the story of the family and the conditions in which they lived in and Alex felt very strongly about the working environment in which those working class people struggled to live during the 19th century and it's a fantastic story.
And I think it deserves a reissue at some point. It's been out of fashion for a while but it was always such a classic.
Yeah, true. And then he wrote like a trilogy, didn't he, of the three hosts of Rebecca and Sweden Bitter Earth, was it? Yeah, it's brilliant anyway, brilliant writer.
I remember going to Rockfield a lot in those days, in the 70s, 74 actually made a single in that, you know, and there was a lot going on there, which kind of put the area on the map, if you like.
It always adds a bit of history and a bit of a reputation for all the top bands playing there. Yeah, I guess it had to come to Newport.
I think they used to come into Newport for a drink and all that stuff. They always have actually, because Newport is the nearest place that you'd probably pick.
Yeah, well it's the nearest train station. Yeah, somebody told me once, David Bowie at Newport train station in the 80s. I think he's been, I'm pretty sure it's true, he'd been out to Rockfield because Iggy Pop was recording that day, you know.
And he was just on his own on the platform there. One of the things we haven't mentioned is, you know, obviously TJ's, but when, because Johnny, when he first started in Clarence Place, he had that cafe or restaurant called The Cedars.
That was his first, which he opened with his wife. And at some point, I can't remember, it was in the mid 70s, early 70s, he came up to the Students' Union because he was looking to sort of develop and expand his kind of little empire down there in Clarence Place, because he acquired the building next door.
And, you know, and what he was looking for was customers and who was, who was his customers going to be and he thought he was going to hijack the students from the Union. I remember him coming up there, I was social secretary.
And he, he wanted me, he wanted me to show him around. And so I showed him around and it was an absolute dump of a place. So he obviously, you know, was impressed and recreated the same sort of dump that we had up on Stonehill.
The Union, because they opened it.
Talking about dumps, a place we haven't mentioned yet is the Emlin Street Student Union, right? Do you remember that?
Oh, that came way after, that came after Stonehill.
Yeah, they closed down on Stonehill and that one came next.
So Emlin Street was a Students' Union which was by, where the Newport Centre is now, not far from the riverfront. And that was, they used to have bands there, but did you not?
No, I'd left by then.
Okay.
That's when I started going.
Just out of interest, when was, when did John start putting bands on in the TJs?
When was that?
I can tell you what I think, I mean, Richard might go back further than me, but I can remember, one of the things people misremember about TJs in my opinion, I'm in my late 50s, one of the things people don't
misremember is basically, you know, if you're in a, like I was in, I was in bands, is that, is that TJs was quite, could be quite a scary place, you know, it's got this reputation
a proper reputation, deserved reputation for being a great rock and roll club, but actually back in the early 80s, it was quite, it could be quite scary, you know, quite frightening.
And it's the sort of place that you could, you wouldn't want to go, you know, and you get some right characters in there, you know.
And I've seen some, I've seen some really, I've seen some bad violence in there which was quite, quite frightening in my time.
Richard, but John would always give you a chance to like, nobody, you know, you could be a band mate, nobody would give you a gig, nobody would pay you, you could take the John, or can we just set up and play,
mates will come, you know, we'll take 50p on the door and at least they're going to buy cans off you, you know.
So that was the kind of thing with TJs is that I think almost, almost by accident it became this great rock and roll venue, because other places in Newport wouldn't put these bands on, you know, because they were, these bands were quite, a lot of drugs.
Radical. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know, I remember seeing the Darling Buds in there in
1889, I don't remember much from then, I don't know if Richard does.
No, that'd be about right. It might be a good idea to ask Simon when they, when he first started, he used to put on a lot of the gigs, because I can't be, I can't remember, I know we used to go there when I just left art college.
Simon was putting gigs on other places, he was putting gigs on Stoweville Labour Club, and he was putting them on in Pille, in the Irish Club. He wasn't always, you know, TJs wasn't the first.
That's what I mean about people misremembering.
It became this great place, but actually, people tried to go anywhere but TJs at the beginning.
Fair enough.
Secoes as we call it, TJs.
Secoes, yeah.
Yeah, because Simon put on the, what was called the Party in the Park, and that was, with the Damned. Yeah, that was a fundraising event for us, for our homelessness organisation.
I did it with him and John, so Cola, and we had the Damned there and Selecta, and it was Skin Dread's first gig.
That's when they played the band.
But it was great meeting the Damned, because obviously, you know, they were the ones who came out with the first punk single, really.
So it was great having them here.
If you've got any kind of thoughts on how Newport has kind of maybe changed from those early days, the early 70s, then where's it going, do you think?
I just think the soul's been taken out of it, you know, by business, the economy has screwed it up.
And I don't think they've put enough money into redeveloping...
Local politicians?
Yeah, probably the council. I don't know much, I don't follow it very much.
I'm constantly disappointed about the way the town is being treated, and it seems there's been a lot of mismanagement around the place.
Oh, I'm not so despondent, actually.
No, I'm the other way.
I think the High Street, now, I mean, we know that the chap who runs the...
Oh, the Antiques place in Panarth Road, and also the Tram Shed in Cardiff has now redeveloped Newport Market.
And that's been turned into a sort of food venue offices and all sorts of things.
The High Street and the market arcade up the top, you know, there's a lot of money gone into that.
New shops and things like that are going to be open soon. So that top end of town, you've got to start somewhere.
No, the top end of town. Yeah, yeah, no, I agree. But commercial street, commercial street, the main street, you know.
Yeah, I was kind of thinking about, I was a child in the 70s, and I remember it being extremely busy and those double-decker buses going through before they paved it over, you know.
Unfortunately, Newport didn't get shortlisted to the City of Culture, but I think what it's done, it's given it a kind of a, I wouldn't say a bit of a boost, really, because in order to submit that application, they had to do a joint bid between the other local authorities in Southeast Wales.
And I think now what they're going to do is join up together to say, we've got a great product down here in Southeast Wales, you know, come and visit us.
And I think they're going to work together better, hopefully, so that they will be able to win that on the next time around.
Work together better, is that your phrase?
Well, I hope they will, you know, I just hope they will.
I'm pleased there's some, you know, progress being made. I didn't know, I wasn't aware of all that stuff. I'm kind of...
A sad thing is the demise of a decent local newspaper.
Yeah.
You know, back in the early 70s, you had a music correspondent, you had a police reporter, you had a reporter for practically everything you could possibly think of. It was a decent sized newspaper.
And now you've got about two or three reporters who cover everything, who never leave the office, who don't go out and speak to people, who don't get to know the people, don't feel the pulse of what's going on.
We've lost a good newspaper. It's really... and we've seen that over the last few decades, certainly since I've been here, I've noticed that.
But that's got to be the internet, right? People are not buying newspapers like they did.
Very sad.